The Democratic Republic of Congo, also called the DRC, is an African country that is almost
one quarter the size of Europe.
Yet, despite the challenges, Jehovah's Witnesses successfully distribute Bibles and Bible-based
publications to the people of Congo.
This journey begins at the South Africa branch office of Jehovah's Witnesses, commonly known
as Bethel.
Journals and other publications are printed here, and these are loaded onto trucks traveling
to Congo.
Each month, these trucks pass through many borders, a journey of 4,500 kilometers.
They would take about 21 days to travel towards the equator, cutting through some of the
most challenging conditions in Africa, to arrive safely at the Kinshasa branch office
in Congo.
But some of the literature still has a long way to go.
From Kinshasa, a boat would travel up to Congo River for 14 days, covering a distance
of 1,200 kilometers.
It is in this part of the journey that the literature crosses the equator to reach
Bumba.
Because infrastructure is limited, bicycles and motorcycles are the most practical means
of transport on land.
In Bumba, the local witnesses quickly coordinate efforts to deliver the literature on time.
Philippe volunteers to travel from Bumba to Yandongi, a village about 100 kilometers
away, with a load of 180 kilograms on his bicycle.
I tried to make the trip in only two days so I can be back to study the Bible with my
family.
In another route, he travels from Bumba to Bondo, this 425 kilometer trek takes seven days
one way.
The roads are badly maintained and when it rains, the state of the roads is terrible,
ecotastrophe.
When I arrive that the brothers with the literature, everyone receives me with cries of happiness.
They are the ones who have floated my bike, keep it upright and have floated the peg
trees.
By then, I am sitting somewhere and I feel very content.
Mathieu will travel 200 kilometers upstream in his canoe to deliver literature to Mombongo.
He is one of the volunteers who help transport the literature on its epic journey every
month.
It usually takes him four days, depending on the weather.
For me, this journey is like working at Bethel.
When I'm in a dugout canoe, I feel like I'm in a floating Bethel.
When we arrive, the brothers welcome us with love.
They are really happy and thankful for the provision given by his organization to have
the literature reach them on time.
The watchtower is published simultaneously in over 240 languages around the world.
This epic journey into the far reaches of Congo is one example of the efforts drove us
witnesses make to share the Bible's life-saving message.